README.md, before:

# Mine Yours

A barter marketplace. Connecting the community in order to make a better world

> ### Group members<br>


## Table of Contents

1. [Description](#description)
2. [Technical Overview](#technical-overview)
3. [Usage](#usage)
4. [Requirements](#requirements)
5. [Firestore Methods](#firestoreMethods)
6. [Production](#production)


## Description



## Technical Overview


## Usage
In order to run the project locally please read [Requirements](#requirements) section for instructions setting up a local .env and for installing dependencies. Find further instructions for setting up the project for development or production in the [Development](#development) and [Production](#production) sections.

## Requirements

Node.js - version 16.0+


### Installing Dependencies
From within the root directory:
> 1. Run ```npm install``` to install all required dependencies

## Firestore Methods

### User Functions
User Object
}
username: String
email: String
first_name: String
last_name: String
profile_image: String
bio: String
rating: Number
status: String
zip_code: Number
}

Get users by a specific filter
>```getUser(object)```
> Returns the document reference that matches the properties in the object

Get user by id
>```getUserById(user_id)
> Returns user document

Update User Information
> ```updateUser(user_id, data)```
> data: data object with properties to change on the user
> Returns document reference

Report User
> ```reportUser(user_id)```
> Returns result of action

Activate User
> ```activateUser(user_id)```
> Returns result of action

### Listing Functions
Listing Object
{
name: String
description: String
owner_id: String
photos: Array of Strings
start_date: Date
end_date: Date
status: String
type: String
zip_code: Number
}

Has status "active", "reported", or "canceled"

Create New Listing
> ```postListing(name, description, photos, type, start_date, end_date, zip_code)```
> Note: Start date defaults to current time
> Returns document reference

Get Listing by ID
> ```getListingById(listing_id)```
> Returns listing data

Get listings by a specific filter
>```getListings(object)```
>
> Returns the document reference that matches the properties in the object

Update Listing
> ```updateListing(listing_id, data)```
> data: data object with properties to change on the listing
> Returns document reference

Report Listing
>```reportListing(listing_id)```
> Marks listing status to reported

activate Listing
>```reportListing(listing_id)```
> Marks listing status to active, used when reactivating reported listing

Delete Listing
> ```deleteListing(listing_id)```


### Trade Functions
Trade Object
{
listing_id: String UID
owner_id: String UID
receiver_id: String UID
start_date: Date
expiration_date: Date
status: String
}
Has status "pending", "active", "reported", or "canceled"

Get trades using a specific filter
>```getTrades(object)```
>
> Returns the document reference that matches the properties in the object

Post a trade
> ```postTrade(listing_id, receiver_id, expiration_date [, start_date])```
> Start date is optional, if not provided current time will be used. This creates the trade with a status of pending which will then be approved my owner
> Returns trade_id

Approve a trade setting status to approved
> ```approveTrade(trade_id)```
> Returns trade document

Cancel trade
> ```cancelTrade(trade_id)```
> Returns trade document

Get trade by id
> ```getTradeById(trade_id)```
> Returns trade document


### Message Functions

Get messages using a specific filter
>```getMessages(object)```
>
> Returns the document reference that matches the properties in the object


### Review Functions

Get reviews using a specific filter
>```getReviews(object)```
>
> Returns the document reference that matches the properties in the object

Get reviews using a specific filter
>```postReview(trade_id, poster_id, rating, description)```
>
> Returns the document reference to created review.
> Note: poster_id must match the owner_id or receiver_id of the trade being reviewed

Commit message:

Update readme with group members, links to github, and description

README.md, after:

# Mines Yours

A barter marketplace. Connecting the community in order to make a better world

> ### Group members<br>
[Mark Clark](https://github.com/fitDizzle)
[Justin Turkaly](https://github.com/JustinTurkaly)
[Xincheng Zhou](https://github.com/Alexxx125)
[Cameron Montgomery](https://github.com/Tribalash)
[Nick Amenda](https://github.com/nickamenda/)
[Jonathan Navarrete](https://github.com/Ragnaric)
[Jonathan Liang](https://github.com/jliang158)

[^1]: Click on name to checkout team members GitHub
## Table of Contents

1. [Description](#description)
2. [Technical Overview](#technical-overview)
3. [Usage](#usage)
4. [Requirements](#requirements)
5. [Firestore Methods](#firestoreMethods)
6. [Production](#production)


## Description

Mines Yours is a barter marketplace seeking to build community, lower waste and build a better world. Sign in with your favorite account, browse listings, message owners, set up trades and get email notifications when your trade is coming to an end. Mines Yours was the final project at the Hack Reactor Advanced Software Immersive. Group members worked in an Agile environment over the course of a week with a client to design, build, and deploy this "Offer Up" or "Facebook Marketplace" clone.

## Technical Overview

Mines Yours is built with React, Express, Node.js, and Firebase.

## Usage
In order to run the project locally please read [Requirements](#requirements) section for instructions setting up a local .env and for installing dependencies. Find further instructions for setting up the project for development or production in the [Development](#development) and [Production](#production) sections.

## Requirements

Node.js - version 16.0+


### Installing Dependencies
From within the root directory:
> 1. Run ```npm install``` to install all required dependencies


## Firestore Methods

### User Functions
User Object
}
username: String
email: String
first_name: String
last_name: String
profile_image: String
bio: String
rating: Number
status: String
zip_code: Number
}

Get users by a specific filter
>```getUser(object)```
> Returns the document reference that matches the properties in the object

Get user by id
>```getUserById(user_id)
> Returns user document

Update User Information
> ```updateUser(user_id, data)```
> data: data object with properties to change on the user
> Returns document reference

Report User
> ```reportUser(user_id)```
> Returns result of action

Activate User
> ```activateUser(user_id)```
> Returns result of action

### Listing Functions
Listing Object
{
name: String
description: String
owner_id: String
photos: Array of Strings
start_date: Date
end_date: Date
status: String
type: String
zip_code: Number
}

Has status "active", "reported", or "canceled"

Create New Listing
> ```postListing(name, description, photos, type, start_date, end_date, zip_code)```
> Note: Start date defaults to current time
> Returns document reference

Get Listing by ID
> ```getListingById(listing_id)```
> Returns listing data

Get listings by a specific filter
>```getListings(object)```
>
> Returns the document reference that matches the properties in the object

Update Listing
> ```updateListing(listing_id, data)```
> data: data object with properties to change on the listing
> Returns document reference

Report Listing
>```reportListing(listing_id)```
> Marks listing status to reported

activate Listing
>```reportListing(listing_id)```
> Marks listing status to active, used when reactivating reported listing

Delete Listing
> ```deleteListing(listing_id)```


### Trade Functions
Trade Object
{
listing_id: String UID
owner_id: String UID
receiver_id: String UID
start_date: Date
expiration_date: Date
status: String
}
Has status "pending", "active", "reported", or "canceled"

Get trades using a specific filter
>```getTrades(object)```
>
> Returns the document reference that matches the properties in the object

Post a trade
> ```postTrade(listing_id, receiver_id, expiration_date [, start_date])```
> Start date is optional, if not provided current time will be used. This creates the trade with a status of pending which will then be approved my owner
> Returns trade_id

Approve a trade setting status to approved
> ```approveTrade(trade_id)```
> Returns trade document

Cancel trade
> ```cancelTrade(trade_id)```
> Returns trade document

Get trade by id
> ```getTradeById(trade_id)```
> Returns trade document


### Message Functions

Get messages using a specific filter
>```getMessages(object)```
>
> Returns the document reference that matches the properties in the object


### Review Functions

Get reviews using a specific filter
>```getReviews(object)```
>
> Returns the document reference that matches the properties in the object

Get reviews using a specific filter
>```postReview(trade_id, poster_id, rating, description)```
>
> Returns the document reference to created review.
> Note: poster_id must match the owner_id or receiver_id of the trade being reviewed
